>> Ifill: A ROAD MAP TO REFORM,
CLEVELAND PLANS TO TRANSFORM ITS
POLICE DEPARTMENT, AFTER
REACHING A NEGOTIATED SETTLEMENT
WITH THE JUSTICE DEPARTMENT.
GOOD EVENING, I'M GWEN IFILL.
>> Woodruff: AND I'M JUDY
WOODRUFF.
ALSO AHEAD THIS TUESDAY:
BEHIND CLOSED DOORS, THE SECRET
TRIAL IN IRAN FOR WASHINGTON
POST REPORTER JASON REZAIAN
CHARGED WITH ESPIONAGE.
WE GET THE LATEST UPDATE FROM
THE JOURNALIST'S BROTHER ALI
REZAIAN.
>> Ifill: PLUS, OPTING OUT, AS
THE SCHOOL YEAR COMES TO A
CLOSE, WHY A SMALL, BUT GROWING,
NUMBER OF STUDENTS ARE REFUSING
TO TAKE STANDARDIZED TESTS.
>> Woodruff: THOSE ARE SOME OF
THE STORIES WE'RE COVERING ON
TONIGHT'S PBS NEWSHOUR.
>> Ifill: THE FLOOD DISASTER
THAT'S STRICKEN TEXAS AND
OKLAHOMA CLAIMED MORE LIVES AND
PROPERTY TODAY.
AT LEAST 16 PEOPLE HAVE BEEN
KILLED SINCE SATURDAY, AND
DOZENS MORE ARE MISSING.
THE LATEST DELUGE HIT HOUSTON,
AFTER AN ALL-NIGHT DOWNPOUR.
LIGHTNING SNAKED ITS WAY ACROSS
THE NIGHT SKY AND THE RAIN FELL-
- AND FELL AND FELL-- 11 INCHES
IN ABOUT SIX HOURS IN SOUTHWEST
HOUSTON.
BY MORNING, PARTS OF THE
NATION'S FOURTH LARGEST CITY
WERE UNDERWATER.
HUNDREDS OF CARS WERE STOPPED IN
THEIR TRACKS BY RISING WATER,
CAUSING ALL-NIGHT BACKUPS.
IN SOME CASES, DESPERATE DRIVERS
CLIMBED ONTO THE HOODS OF THEIR
CARS WAITING FOR HELP.
BUT, EVEN TOW TRUCKS GOT STUCK.
HOUSTON MAYOR ANNISE PARKER
DECLARED THE CITY A DISASTER
AREA, AFTER MORE THAN 500 WATER
RESCUES.
>> THE STREET FLOODING FROM THE
REALLY TORRENTIAL DOWNPOUR LAST
NIGHT, WE'VE GOT CARS REALLY
LITTERED ALL OVER THE CITY.
AND AS THE FLOODWATERS GO DOWN,
ONE OF THE THINGS WE'RE DOING IS
TO MAKE SURE THAT NO ONE IS
TRAPPED IN THOSE VEHICLES.
>> Ifill: IN ALL, ABOUT 2,500
VEHICLES WERE ABANDONED BY
PEOPLE SEEKING HIGHER GROUND.
TO THE WEST, 40 PEOPLE WERE
STILL MISSING IN THE HARD-HIT
VACATION AREA OF WIMBERLEY,
TEXAS ON THE BLANCO RIVER.
TEAMS KEPT LOOKING FOR LAURA
MACOMB AND HER TWO CHILDREN WHO
WERE SWEPT AWAY IN THEIR
VACATION HOME.
HER HUSBAND, JONATHAN, WAS
RESCUED.
GOVERNOR GREG ABBOTT DECLARED
DISASTERS IN MORE THAN THREE
DOZEN COUNTIES.
AND IN WASHINGTON, PRESIDENT
OBAMA PROMISED FEDERAL HELP.
>> WE HAVE FEMA PERSONNEL
ALREADY ON THE GROUND.
THEY ARE COORDINATING WITH TEXAS
EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT
AUTHORITIES.
AND I WILL ANTICIPATE THAT THERE
WILL BE SOME SIGNIFICANT
REQUESTS MADE TO WASHINGTON.
>> Ifill: MEANWHILE, ON THE
MEXICAN BORDER, THE DEATH TOLL
FROM MONDAY'S TORNADO IN CIUDAD
ACUNA ROSE TO 14 AFTER SEARCH
TEAMS FOUND THE BODY OF A BABY
WHO'D BEEN SWEPT FROM ITS
MOTHER'S ARMS.
>> Ifill: SO FAR, THERE'S NO
ESTIMATE OF THE DAMAGE DONE IN
TEXAS AND OKLAHOMA.
BUT THE NATIONAL WEATHER SERVICE
IS WARNING OF MORE RAIN AND
THUNDERSTORMS THIS WEEK.
>> Woodruff: A FEDERAL JUDGE'S
RULING THAT BLOCKED A
PRESIDENTIAL ORDER ON
IMMIGRATION, WILL STAND A WHILE
LONGER.
A FEDERAL APPEALS COURT PANEL
REFUSED TODAY TO SET ASIDE THE
RULING.
IT BARS THE PRESIDENT FROM
SHIELDING IMMIGRANTS FROM
DEPORTATION.
THE JUSTICE DEPARTMENT IS
EXPECTED TO APPEAL.
>> Ifill: THE GOVERNMENT OF IRAQ
HAS FORMALLY OPENED A CAMPAIGN
TO RETAKE ITS KEY WESTERN
PROVINCE, ANBAR, FROM THE
ISLAMIC STATE GROUP.
ISIS FIGHTERS CAPTURED THE
PROVINCIAL CAPITAL, RAMADI, LAST
WEEK, AFTER IRAQI FORCES
ABANDONED THE CITY.
TODAY'S ANNOUNCEMENT OF A
COUNTER-OFFENSIVE CAME AS
SHIITE MILITIAS SAID THEY ARE
NOW TAKING THE LEAD IN THE
OPERATION.
OPERATION. >> (
translated): WE CAN SAY
>> (translated): WE CAN
SAY THAT THE CITY OF RAMADI HAS
BEEN
THAT THE CITY OF RAMADI HAS BEEN
BESIEGED FROM THREE SIDES.
THERE ARE FORMATIONS FROM THE
IRAQI ARMED FORCES STATIONED
SHOULDER-TO-SHOULDER WITH THE
FORMATIONS OF SHIITE MILITIA.
THUS, THE CITY OF RAMADI WILL BE
BLOCKADED COMPLETELY.
THEN, THE IRAQI TROOPS WILL
LAUNCH A WIDE-SCALE ATTACK TO
LIBERATE RAMADI.
>> Ifill: U.S. OFFICIALS RAISED
CONCERNS ABOUT THE SHIITE
MILITIAS' INVOLVEMENT, AND THEIR
USE OF A SECTARIAN CODE NAME
THAT COULD OFFEND SUNNIS.
MEANWHILE, IN SYRIA, STATE T.V.
REPORTED AIR STRIKES IN THE
NORTHERN PROVINCE OF RAQQA HAVE
KILLED 140 ISLAMIC STATE
MILITANTS.
>> Woodruff: GOVERNMENT-ALLIED
FIGHTERS IN YEMEN HAVE SCORED
THEIR FIRST MAJOR VICTORY IN
MONTHS, OVER SHIITE HOUTHI
REBELS.
OFFICIALS SAID TODAY THE PRO-
GOVERNMENT FORCES CAPTURED
DHALE, A CITY THAT LIES ON THE
ROAD TO THE PORT OF ADEN.
>> Ifill: CHINA SAID TODAY IT
WILL EXPAND THE REACH OF ITS
NAVY AND AIR FORCE TO PROTECT
ITS CLAIMS IN THE SOUTH CHINA
SEA.
THAT CAME DAYS AFTER A U.S.
RECONNAISSANCE PLANE FLEW OVER
AREAS WHERE THE CHINESE ARE
BUILDING ARTIFICIAL ISLANDS.
IN BEIJING, THE DEFENSE MINISTRY
DISMISSED COMPLAINTS ABOUT
CHINA'S ACTIVITIES.
CHINA'S ACTIVITIES. >> (
translated): THERE ARE
ALL
>> (translated): THERE
ARE ALL KINDS OF CONSTRUCTIONS
ALL OVER
KINDS OF CONSTRUCTIONS ALL OVER
CHINA EVERYDAY, SUCH AS BUILDING
HOUSES, ROADS, BRIDGES AND SO
ON.
FROM THE SOVEREIGNTY POINT OF
VIEW, CHINA'S CONSTRUCTION IN
THE SOUTH CHINA SEA IS NO
DIFFERENT THAN THE CONSTRUCTIONS
IN OTHER PARTS OF CHINA.
>> Ifill: MEANWHILE, TAIWAN'S
PRESIDENT OFFERED A
PLAN AIMED AT EASING THE
TENSIONS.
AND JAPAN ANNOUNCED IT WILL JOIN
U.S. AND AUSTRALIAN FORCES IN
UPCOMING MILITARY EXERCISES, FOR
THE FIRST TIME.
>> Woodruff: BACK IN THIS
COUNTRY, CYBER-THIEVES HAVE
BROKEN INTO AN I.R.S. DATABASE
THAT HOLDS RECORDS OF MORE THAN
100,000 TAXPAYERS.
THE AGENCY SAID TODAY THE
HACKERS OBTAINED TAX RETURNS AND
OTHER INFORMATION.
THE BREACH LASTED FROM FEBRUARY
THROUGH MID-MAY.
>> Ifill: AMTRAK WILL INSTALL
VIDEO CAMERAS IN LOCOMOTIVE
CABS, STARTING IN THE NORTHEAST
CORRIDOR.
THE ANNOUNCEMENT TODAY FOLLOWS
>> THE ENGINEER ON THAT TRAIN
SUFFERED A HEAD INJURY AND HAS
SAID HE CANNOT REMEMBER WHAT
HAPPENED.
EIGHT PEOPLE TIE TIAND 200 WERE.
>> Woodruff: PRESIDENT OBAMA
PRESSED THE SENATE TODAY TO
EXTEND "PATRIOT ACT" PROVISIONS
THAT AUTHORIZE BULK COLLECTION
OF PHONE RECORDS.
HE SAID: "THIS NEEDS TO GET
DONE."
SO FAR, OPPONENTS HAVE BLOCKED
SENATE ACTION, BUT MAJORITY
LEADER MITCH MCCONNELL IS
CALLING A SUNDAY SESSION, AHEAD
OF A MIDNIGHT DEADLINE.
>> Ifill: AND WALL STREET SPENT
THE DAY IN A BEARISH MOOD OVER
GREECE'S DEBT AND THE SURGING
DOLLAR.
THE DOW JONES INDUSTRIAL AVERAGE
LOST 190 POINTS TO CLOSE NEAR
18,040.
THE NASDAQ FELL 56 POINTS.
AND THE S-AND-P 500 DROPPED 22.
>> Woodruff: STILL TO COME ON
THE NEWSHOUR:
A ROADMAP FOR REFORMING
CLEVELAND'S POLICE DEPARTMENT;
THE SECRET TRIAL FOR A U.S.
JOURNALIST IN IRAN;
HOW BIG MONEY DONORS SHAPE
ELECTIONS;
MASS GRAVES IN THE FORESTS ALONG
THE MALAYSIAN BORDER, THE
SUSPECTED WORK OF HUMAN
TRAFFICKERS;
WHY A SMALL, BUT GROWING NUMBER,
OF STUDENTS REFUSE TO TAKE
STANDARDIZED TESTS;
AND, AN INTERNATIONAL MARKET FOR
VIETNAM'S MODERN ART.
>> Ifill: THE DEPARTMENT OF
JUSTICE AND THE CITY OF
CLEVELAND ANNOUNCED A SWEEPING
LEGAL SETTLEMENT TODAY, THAT
REWRITES THE RULES FOR THE
CITY'S POLICE DEPARTMENT AFTER
RECURRING INSTANCES OF THE USE
OF EXCESSIVE FORCE.
THE U.S. ATTORNEY, THE CITY
POLICE CHIEF AND CLEVELAND'S
MAYOR ALL PRAISED T AGRHEEEMENT
AT A JOINT NEWS CONFERENCE.
>> COMPLIANCE WITH THIS
AGREEMENT, WHICH MEANS TAKING ON
TRULY SYSTEMIC CHANGE, IS GOING
TO BE, AND I SAY THIS AS A
CLEVELANDER, IT'S GONNA BE HARD
WORK.
>> WE'VE TALKED A LOT ABOUT THE
NUTS AND BOLTS OF THIS BUT WHAT
IT REALLY COMES DOWN TO IS WE
HAVE TO, I HAVE TO AS CHIEF,
MAKE SURE THAT THAT COMMUNITY
POLICING PHILOSOPHY IS PART OF
THE DNA OF THE CLEVELAND
DIVISION OF POLICE.
AND THAT'S WHAT I INTEND TO DO.
>> AS I'VE EXPRESSED THROUGHOUT
THIS, MY MAJOR ISSUE WAS
TWOFOLD-- ONE: THAT IT DIDN'T GO
FAR ENOUGH.
AND TWO: THAT WE WANTED TO HAVE
SUBSTANTIVE REAL REFORM THAT WAS
SUSTAINABLE NOT JUST, JUST AS
THE US ATTORNEY SAID, SOME
PRETENSE OF REFORM.
SO THIS GIVE US THE TOOLS.
>> Ifill: FOR MORE ON WHAT IT
TOOK TO GET TO THIS AGREEMENT,
AND WHAT HAPPENS NEXT, IS RONNIE
DUNN ASSOCIATE PROFESSOR OF
URBAN STUDIES AT CLEVELAND STATE
UNIVERSITY.
HE ALSO SERVES ON THE OHIO TASK
FORCE ON COMMUNITY-POLICE
RELATIONS.
THANK YOU FOR JOINING US.
IN THE WAKE OF THE GUILTY-- NOT
GUILTY VERDICT THIS WEEKEND, THE
OFFICER WHO WAS PART OF THE MORE
THAN 100 SHOTS FIRED AT TWO
PEOPLE IN THE CAR, AND WE WAIT
ON TAMIR RICE VERDICT AND OTHER
HIGH-PROFILE VERDICTS, WHAT IS
THE MEANING OF WHAT THEY AGREED
TO TODAY?
>> I THINK IT'S A FIRST STEP
ALONG THIS LONG ROAD THAT WE
NEED TO TRANSFORM THE
RELATIONSHIP BETWEEN THE
COMMUNITY AND THE POLICE
DEPARTMENT SWORN TO SERVE THEM.
THIS IS A VERY ROBUST AND
COMPREHENSIVE REFORM PACKAGE.
>> Ifill: ONE OF THE THINGS
THAT THE ASSISTANT ATTYTICE DEPD
TODAY WAS THIS WOULD RESTORE
CONSTITUTIONAL POLICING.
MOST AMERICANS WOULD BE
SURPRISED TO REALIZE THAT WASN'T
SOMETHING THAT WAS ALREADY
HAPPENING.
YOU CAN COMPLAIN WHAT THE
DEFINITION OF "CONSTITUTIONAL
POLICING" IS?
>> WELL, IT'S POLICING IN LINE
WITH THE U.S. CONSTITUTION,
PARTICULARLY EQUAL PROTECTION
UNDER THE LAW AND REGARDING
PROTECTION FROM UNREASONABLE
SEARCH AND SEIZURE.
AND JUST THE PROTECTION OF
CITIZENS' CONSTITUTIONAL RIGHTS,
REGARDLESS OF THEIR BACKGROUND--
SOCIOECONOMIC, RACIAL, ETHNIC,
GENDER, OR SEXUAL ORIENTATION OR
OTHERWISE.
>> Ifill: THAT SEEMS PRETTY
STRAIGHTFORWARD BUT THAT DOESN'T
SEEM LIKE IT WOULD NEED A
JUSTICE DEPARMENT SETTLEMENT TO
ACCOMPLISH.
WHAT IS IN THE FINDING, THIS
AGREEMENT, THIS SETTLEMENT, THAT
WOULD TRANSFORM-- AS THE MAYOR
STAYS STADE-- TRANSFORM THE CITY
POLICE DEPARTMENT AND THE CITY?
>> WELL, THERE ARE QUITE A FEW
COMPONENT, PARTICULARLY THE
REVAMPING AND REVISION OF THE
USE OF FORCE POLICIES WHICH WERE
THE PARTICULAR FINDING OF THE
DOJ INVESTIGATION, DEADLY USE
AND EXCESSIVE FORCE, AND AS YOU
KNOW, WE HAVE HAD A TRAGIC
INSTANCES YOU MADE REFERENCE TO.
IT DIRECTLY ADDRESSES THAT AS
WELL AS WHAT IS REALLY UNIQUE
AND NOVEL ABOUT THIS IS IT
PLACES CIVILIAN INVOLVEMENT AND
THE HEAD OF THE INTERNAL AFFAIRS
UNIT FOR THE POLICE DEPARTMENT
WILL BE HEADED BY A CIVILIAN.
THAT IS NOVEL.
THAT IS UNIQUE.
NOWHERE IN THE NATION IS THAT
CURRENTLY IN PLACE.
SO THIS CAN TRULY BE A MODEL FOR
POLICING IN THE 21st CENTURY
IF IMPLEMENTED AS DESIGNED.
>> Ifill: "IF IMPLEMENTED AS
DESIGNED."
WE HEARD THE JUDGE SAY THIS
WEEKEND PART OF THE REASON THE
POLICE OFFICER WAS NOT FOUND
GUILTY OF MANSLAUGHTER IS HE DID
PERCEIVE A THREAT.
WHAT DOES THIS AGREEMENT DO TO
SPEAK TO THIS IDEA THAT SOME
PEOPLE-- I SOME OFFICERS, SOME
CIVILIANS PERCEIVE THREATS WHICH
TURNS OUT MAY NOT EXICHT?
>> YES, I'M GLAD YOU ASKED THAT
QUESTION.
IT SPECIFICALLY ADDRESSES
TRAINING.
THERE'S A LOT OF EMPHASIS ON
TRAINING, RESOURCES FOR
EQUIPMENT AND TRAINING AND
SPECIFICALLY TO YOUR QUESTION,
THERE'S THREAT PERCEPTION
TRAINING, AND DE-ESCALATION
TACTICS THAT WILL BE
IMPLEMENTED, AND THAT, ALONG
WITH CULTURAL COMPETENCY AND
BIAS-FREE POLICING AS WELL, WILL
ALL BE PART OF THIS REFORM
PACKAGE.
>> Ifill: WHEN THE THE JUSTICE
DEPARMENT FIRST CAME OUT WITH
THIS FINDING AGAINST THE CITY OF
CLEVELAND, IT NEVER REALLY
MENTIONED RACE, BUT YOU'RE
SAYING THIS AGREEMENT WILL SPEAK
TO THINGS LIKE IMPLICIT BIAS?
>> YABSOLUTELY.
THAT WAS INSISTENT AND A VERY
SALIENT THEME THROUGHOUT THE
COMMUNITY FORUMS THAT WERE HELD,
BOTH THROUGHOUT THE CITY
RELATIVE TO THIS, THIS
INVESTIGATION, AND THROUGHOUT
THE STATE, ACTUALLY.
SO BIAS-FREE POLICING AND DATA
COLLECTION ARE DEFINITELY
INCORPORATED, EMBEDDED IN THE--
IN THIS PACKAGE.
>> Ifill: I KNOW YOU
UNDERSTAND AND YOU LIVE IN AND
YOU PAID VERY CLOSE ATTENTION TO
WHAT'S HAPPENED IN CLEVELAND AND
OHIO, BUT PART OF ALL THE LEVELS
OF GOVERNMENT WERE SAYING TODAY,
THIS WOULD BE A BLUEPRINT FOR
OTHER DEPARTMENTS IN THE
COUNTRY.
YOU HAVE WRITTEN WIDELY ON MORE
THAN JUST CLEVELAND SO MAYBE YOU
CAN TELL US, HOW COULD THIS BE A
BLUEPRINT FOR OTHER CITIES?
>> WHEN YOU CONSIDER THIS NOW
EMBEDS CIVILIANS OVER THE
INTERNAL AFFAIRS DIVISION, THAT
IS HOW YOU WOULD BEGIN TO CHANGE
THE CULTURE WITHIN THE POLICE
INSTITUTION.
WE HEAR SO MUCH ABOUT THE THIN
BLUE LINE AND THAT BLUE WALL OF
SILENCE, AND TRYING TO IMPACT
THAT.
WELL, THIS IS HOW-- IN PART, HOW
YOU BEGIN TO SHIFT AND CHANGE
THAT INSULAR CULTURE WITHIN THE
POLICE AGENCY.
>> Ifill: DO YOU ANTICIPATE
ANY RESISTANCE FROM UNIONS,
POLICE UNIONS, OR THE POLICE
OFFICERS THEMSELVES ABOUT THE
IDEA THAT A CIVILIAN WOULD BE IN
CHARGE OF THEIR INTERNAL AFFAIRS
INVESTIGATIONS?
>> WELL, I'M SURE THERE WILL BE
SOME RESISTANCE NENTIALLY, BUT
HOPEFULLY, EVERYONE WILL SEE
THROUGH THE PROCESS, THROUGH THE
IMPLEMENTATION PROCESS THAT THIS
IS ESSENTIAL FOR THE BETTER--
THIS NOT ONLY BENEFITS THE
COMMUNITY.
IT BENEFITS POLICE OFFICERS AS
WELL.
IT MAKES THEM ABLE TO PERFORM
THEIR JOBS MORE EFFICIENTIVELY,
MORE SAFELY, AND PROVIDES THEM
WITH THE NECESSARY TOOLS,
TRAINING, AND EQUIPMENT THAT
THEY NEED TO DO SO.
SO I THINK THAT ULTIMATELY WHEN
WE LOOK AT CITIES ACROSS THE
COUNTRY-- CINCINNATI, FOR
EXAMPLE, WHERE THEY'VE COME
UNDER DODGE GUIDANCE WITH A
DISSENT DECREE, THERE HAS BEEN A
TRANSFORMATION IN THE
RELATIONSHIP BETWEEN THE POLICE
AND COMMUNITY WHERE THEY HAVE A
PARTNERSHIP, AND CO-POLICING TO
MAKE THE COMMUNITY SAFER
OVERALL.
>> Ifill: PROFESSOR RONNIE
DUNN OF CLEVELAND STATE
UNIVERSITY, THANK YOU VERY MUCH.
>> THANK YOU.
>> Woodruff: AFTER BEING LOCKED
UP FOR NEARLY A YEAR IN A TEHRAN
PRISON, WASHINGTON POST
JOURNALIST JASON REZAIAN FINALLY
HAD HIS FIRST DAY OF COURT THIS
MORNING.
FAMILY MEMBERS AND JOURNALISTS
WERE NOT ALLOWED TO ATTEND THE
TEHRAN REVOLUTIONARY COURT
SESSION.
HE WAS ACCOMPANIED ONLY BY HIS
ATTORNEY.
IRANIAN CITIZENSHIP, WAS
ARRESTED WITH HIS IRANIAN WIFE
LAST JULY.
SHE WAS RELEASED ON BAIL IN
OCTOBER.
IN APRIL, THE WASHINGTON POST
REPORTED THAT THEIR REPORTER WAS
CHARGED WITH ESPIONAGE AND OTHER
CRIMES INCLUDING "COLLABORATING
WITH HOSTILE GOVERNMENTS" AND
"PROPAGANDA AGAINST THE
ESTABLISHMENT."
WE INVITED THE IRANIAN
AMBASSADOR TO THE UNITED NATIONS
TO COME ON THE PROGRAM TO TALK
ABOUT JASON REZAIAN'S CASE.
HIS OFFICE DID NOT RESPOND TO
OUR OFFER.
WE ARE JOINED, HOWEVER, BY
JASON'S BROTHER, ALI REZAIAN.
WE WELCOME YOU TO THE PROGRAM.
>> THANK YOU FOR HAVING ME.
DISPLOO.
>> Woodruff: SO WHAT DO YOU
KNOW WHEN WHAT HAPPENED IN THAT
ROOM TODAY?
>> WE KNOW THIS WAS THE FIRST
DAY OF THE COURT.
THEY WERE WOULD GO IN AND READ
JASON THE CHARGES AGAINST HIM
AND THE INFORMATION ABOUT IT,
AND HE WOULD HAVE TO RESPOND TO
THOSE.
BECAUSE IT'S A SECRET COURT,
BECAUSE IT'S CLOSED, WE DON'T
HAVE A LOT MORE INFORMATION THAN
THAT.
IT'S ILLEGAL TO DISCLOSE
INFORMATION BUT WE KNOW THE
PROCESS AND WE KNOW THAT THE
NEXT THING THAT'S GOING TO
HAPPEN IS THE JUDGE WILL SET THE
SECOND DAY OF TRIAL AND THERE
WILL BE MORE TESTIMONY.
>> Woodruff: NOW, HE DOES HAVE
AN ATTORNEY AS WE MENTIONED.
>> THAT'S CORRECT.
>> Woodruff: AND THIS IS
SOMEONE YOUR FAMILY SELECTED, IS
THAT RIGHT OR HELPED SELECT?
>> IT WAS KIND OF A LONG, HARD
PROCESS.
WE SELECTED ASAN TO BE MY
SISTER-IN-LAW'S ATTORNEY, AND
BECAUSE OF THE COMPLEXITY OF THE
CASE WE WANTED TO HAVE ANOTHER
ATTORNEY.
WE WERE HOPING TO FIND SOMEBODY
WHO HAD A LOT OF ENGLISH
LANGUAGE SKILLS AS WELL.
BUT THE JUDGE WOULDN'T ALLOW US
TO CHOOSE SOME OF THE PEOPLE
THAT WE WANTED.
WE ENDED UP DECIDING THAT WE
WOULD USE THE SAME ATTORNEY.
I THINK THERE'S AN ADVANTAGE
THERE BECAUSE SHE DOES KNOW THE
CASE VERY, VERY WELL.
SHE'S REVIEWED IT AND HAD A LOT
OF TIME TON THE EVIDENCE.
>> Woodruff: AND YOU'RE IN
REGULAR CONTACT WITH HER, BUT
YOU'RE SAYING SHE'S LIMITED IN
WHAT SHE CAN SAY.
>> THAT'S CORRECT.
I THINK IT'S LIKE SOME TRIALS
HERE WHERE THEY CLOSE THE COURT
AND THEY WON'T LET INFORMATION
OUT DURING THE TIME THAT IT'S
HAPPENING.
>> Woodruff: NOW, WHAT DO YOU
KNOW, OTHER THAN HE'S BEING
CHARGED WITH ESPIONAGE AND WHAT
WE SAID ABOUT THE CHARGE.
WHAT DO YOU KNOW ABOUT WHAT
EVIDENCE THEY'RE PROVIDING?
>> I THINK THE BEST WAY TO SUM
IT UP IS WHAT LAYLA SAID AFTER
SHE REVIEWED THE CASE FILE.
SHE SAID THERE'S ABSOLUTELY NO
BASIS IN THE EVIDENCE, NO BASIS
IN THE FACTS FOR ANY OF THESE
CHARGES AGAINST JASON.
HE NEVER SHOULD HAVE BEEN
ARRESTED.
HE NEVER SHOULD HAVE BEEN TAKEN
AND QUESTIONED.
WHAT WE DO KNOW IS THEY'RE USING
VERY SMALL THINGS, USUALLY VIA
E-MAIL, TO COME UP WITH THESE
IDEAS THAT THERE WAS PROPAGANDA,
THAT HE WAS SAYING BAD THINGS
ABOUT THE GOVERNMENT OR THAT HE
WAS REACHING OUT TO THE UNITED
STATES GOVERNMENT.
WHEN THEY TALK ABOUT
COLLABORATING WITH HOSTILE
POWERS, THE EXAMPLE THERE WAS
SENDING A LETTER BASICALLY
TRYING TO GET A JOB WITH THE
WHITE HOUSE AND WANTING TO HELP
THE COUNTRIES COME TOGETHER.
>> Woodruff: THE "NEW YORK
TIMES" REPORTED TODAY THAT THERE
WAS A LETTER THAT JASON SENT TO
THE TRANSITION TEAM, THE OBAMA
TRANSITION TEAM.
>> THAT'S EXACTLY RIGHT.
>> Woodruff: IN 2008, OFFERING
TO BE OF HELP IN RELATIONS
BETWEEN THE TWO COUNTRIES.
>> HE SAID, I'VE BEEN LIVING IN
IRAN FOR A LONG TIME-- I'VE SEEN
THE LETTER.
"I'VE BEEN LIVING IN IRAN FOR A
LONG TIME.
I DON'T LIKE THE FACT THAT THE
TWO COUNTRIES WHERE I GREW UP
AND WHERE I'M LIVING NOW ARE SO
HOSTILE TOWARDS EACH OTHER AND
I'D LIKE TO HELP THE NEW
ADMINISTRATION IMPROVE REP
REZAIAN ALATIONS.
I CAN HELP YOU?"
>> Woodruff: AND IT WAS ALSO
REPORTED THEY WERE USING WHAT
THEY CALLED EVIDENCE AN
APPLICATION FOR AN AMERICAN VISA
FOR HIS WIFE WHO, AS WE SAID, IS
IRANIAN.
>> Reporter: HIS WIFE WAS BORN
IN IRAN.
AFTER THEY WERE MARRIED SHE
APPLIED FOR A VISA FOR PERMANENT
RESIDENCY HERE IN THE UNITED
STATES.
THAT PROCESS, YOU HAVE TO GO TO
AN EMBARRASS EXWAES.
WELL, THERE'S NO EMBASSY FOR THE
UNITED STATES IN IRAN SO THE
IRANIANS PROCESS THOSE IN OTHER
EXRIPS JASON WAS IN TOUCH WITH
THE U.A.E. EMBASSY IN ORDER TO
PROCESS THAT VISA, AND AFTER IT
WAS PUT IN, HE ASKED FOR IT TO
BE EXPEDITED BECAUSE THAT'S WHAT
YOU DO.
YOU WANT THE VISA AS QUICK AS
YOU CAN GET IT.
>> Woodruff: BUT OTHER THAN
THAT, I MEAN, WHAT YOU'VE
SHARED, THAT'S ALL YOU KNOW,
WHAT THEY SAY THIS CASE IS.
>> THOSE ARE THE PRIMARY THINGS
THAT THEY'RE TALKING ABOUT.
YOU KNOW, THEY'VE SAID THAT HE
WAS INVESTIGATING OR REVIEWING
FOREIGN POLICY AND INTERNAL
POLICY OF THE ISLAMIC REPUBLIC.
THEY DIDN'T SAY HE HAD ACCESS TO
ANYTHING CONFIDENTIAL, THAT HE
TRIED TO, JUST THAT HE WAS
TRYING TO LEARN.
IT WHICH IS WHAT A REPORTER
WOULD DO IN ORDER TO BE TIEBL
REPORT.
>> Woodruff: NOW YOU WERE TELL
ME EARLIER, ALI REZAIAN, THAT
HIS WIFE HAS BEEN ABLE TO VISIT
HIM.
>> THAT'S CORRECT.
>> Woodruff: EVERY WEEK.
WHAT IS SHE REPORTING?
HOW IS HE DOING?
HOW ARE THEY TREATING HIM?
>>UN, IT'S JUST THIS LONG
UP-AND-DOWN CYCLE.
SOMETIMES HE'S BETTER, SOMETIMES
HE'S WORSE.
I THINK HIS HEALTH IS BETTER BUT
MENTAL IT'S BEEN DIFFICULT
COMING UP TO THE TRIAL.
I THINK KNOWs THERE IS SOME
PROGRESS IS HELPFUL.
HOW THEY ARE TREATING HIM EYE
WOULD SAY NEGLECT MORE THAN
ANYTHING ELSE, LONG PERIODS OF
TIME OF WHERE THEY DON'T
INTEGRITY HIM, WHERE HE DOESN'T
HAVE ACCESS TO ANY OTHER
PRISONERS.
YOU KNOW, HE'S JUST BY HIMSELF.
FORTUNATELY HE HAS ACCESS TO
SOME BOOKS BUT HE'S STILL LOCKED
UP.
>> Woodruff: YOUR MOTHER WAS
ABLE TO VISIT HIM IN DECEMBER,
IS THAT RIGHT?
>> CORRECT.
>> Woodruff: WHEN SHE WAS IN
TEHRAN, AND SHE'S GOING GUNN
BACK BUT HE HASN'T BEEN ABLE TO
SEE HIM THIS TIME.
IS THAT RIGHT?
>> HE WAS ABLE TO SEE HIM, SHE
GOT TO VISIT WITH THE JUDGE, AS
WELL AS THE REVOLUTIONARY GUARDS
BEFORE SHE DID, BUT SHE GOTAISE
ONE-HOUR MEETING WITH HIS WIFE
AND WITH MY BROTHER LAST WEEK,
AND HASN'T SEEN HIM SINCE.
>> Woodruff: WELL, LET ME ASK
YOU ABOUT THE JUDGE.
THE REPORTS ARE THERE IS A JUDGE
WHO IS KNOWN FOR HANDING DOWN
TOUGH SENTENCES.
>> YES.
>> Woodruff: WHAT IS KNOWN
ABOUT HIM?
>>UN, A LOT OF THESE JUDGES,
ESPECIALLY IN THE REVOLUTIONARY
COURT, THERE'S NOT A THE LOT OF
INFORMATION ABOUT THEM.
PEOPLE DON'T EVEN SEE THEIR
PICTURES A LOT OF TIMES.
BUT WITH THE JUDGE THAT IS
ASSIGNED TO JASON'S CASE, HE'S
REALLY WORKED ON A LOT OF THE
MORE POLITICAL CASES.
HE'S BEEN ASSIGNED THINGS THAT
WERE POLITICAL IN NATURE AND HAS
HANDED DOWN VERY HARSH SENTENCES
AGAINST PEOPLE.
BUT WHAT I WILL SAY IS MANY OF
THOSE SENTENCES HAVE BEEN
OVERTURNED ON APPEAL.
THERE'S AN APPEAL PROCESS.
OUR HOPE IS AS THEY LOOK AT THE
EVIDENCE, WHICH THEY HAVE,
THEY'LL SEE THAT THERE'S NO
EVIDENCE THERE.
THERE'S NO BASIS, AND, YOU KNOW,
HE'LL ADMIT THAT THIS IS TH
ISN'T SOMETHING THAT THEY WANT
TO DO.
>> Woodruff: ALI REZAIAN,
BASED ON HOW OTHER JOURNALISTS
WHO HAVE BEEN ARRESTED, CHARGED
WITH ESPIONAGE OR SOMETHING
SIMILAR HAVE BEEN TREATED WHAT,
ARE YOUR EXPECTATIONS FOR YOUR
BROTHER?
>> YOU KNOW, I THINK WE'RE
FORTUNATE WHAT'S CONSISTENT WITH
WHAT HE SAID AND WHAT OTHER
FOLKS HAVE SAID IS THEY'RE
TYPICALLY NOT VERY PHYSICAL WITH
DUAL NATIONALS, AND THAT'S
ABSOLUTELY WHAT JASON SAID.
BUT I THINK MENTALLY, OVER TIME,
IT'S REALLY TOUGH ON HIM.
HE'S BEEN NEGLECTED.
HE'S BEEN ISOLATED.
THEY PLAY MIND GAMES WITH YOU
ALL THE TIME AND THEY HAVE BEEN
DOING THAT FOR 10 MONTHS.
I'M VERY SCARED THAT IT CAN
CAUSE PERMANENT ISSUES FOR HIM,
YOU KNOW-- FEAR, ANXIETY, THOSE
KINDS OF THINGS AS WELL AS
DEPRESSION WHICH HE SAID, "I'M
VERY, VERY DEPRESSED.
I DON'T BELONG HERE."
>> Woodruff: NO WONDER, ONE
WOULD THINK SO.
WHAT ABOUT, FINALLY, THE U.S.
GOVERNMENT, HAS IT BEEN OF HELP?
WHAT ROLE HAS IT PLAYED?
>> I THINK BECAUSE OF THE
NEGOTIATIONS THEY'VE HAD A LOT
OF ONE-ON-ONE DISCUSSIONS WITH
IRAN WHICH IS SOMETHING THAT
WOULDN'T HAVE HAPPENED IN THE
PAST.
BUT THERE'S ONLY SO MUCH THEY
CAN DO THROUGH THE DIPLOMATIC
CHANNELS.
THE IRANIANS INSISTED IT NEEDED
TO GO THROUGH A LEGAL PROCESS,
THEY CLAIDED THAT PROCESS
LEGALLY BY THEIR OWN STANDARDS
AS WELL AS INTERNATIONAL
STANDARDS SIX OR SEVEN MONTHS
BEFORE THEY PUT IT IN THE COURT.
NOW IT'S MOVING ALONG.
THE STATE DEPARTMENT HAS PASSED
ALONG NOTES, PASSED ALONG
INFORMATION TO THE GOVERNMENT
WHEN WE'VE ASKED TO SEND
LETTERS, AS WELL AS KEPT US
INFORMED OF WHAT'S GOING ON.
>> Woodruff: WELL, ALI
REZAIAN, BROTHER OF JASON
REZAIAN, WHO IS BEING HELD BY
IRANIAN AUTHORITIES, WE CAN'T
IMAGINE WHAT THIS IS LIKE FOR
YOUR FAMILY.
WE THANK YOU VERY MUCH FOR
COMING TO TALK TO US.
>> THANK YOU FOR COVERING THIS
STORY.
>> Woodruff: THANK YOU.
>> Ifill: THE EVER GROWING COST
OF POLITICAL WARFARE IS NOW
REACHING INTO THE STRATOSPHERE,
WITH THE 2016 ELECTION ON TRACK
TO POSSIBLY DOUBLE THE ROUGHLY
$2 BILLION SPENT IN 2012.
PART OF THE REASON FOR ALL THAT
SPENDING HAS BEEN THE RISE OF
MILLIONAIRE AND BILLIONAIRE
POLITICAL ACTIVISTS ON BOTH
SIDES OF THE POLITICAL AISLE.
IN THE PAST WE HAVE LOOKED AT
THE KOCH BROTHERS, WHO HAVE
PLEDGED NEARLY A BILLION DOLLARS
TO REPUBLICAN AND CONSERVATIVE
CAUSES THIS CYCLE.
ON THE LEFT, THERE IS
BILLIONAIRE TOM STEYER, WHO HAS
PLEDGED MILLIONS ON THE ISSUE OF
CLIMATE CHANGE.
AND TOM STEYER JOINS ME NOW.
WELCOME TO THE NEWSHOUR.
>> NICE TO SEE YOU, GWEN.
>> Ifill: YOU SPENT, THEY SAY,
$70 MILLION IN THE 2014 MIDTERM
ELECTIONS. IS MONEY THE KEY TO
THE 2016 ELECTIONS?
>> I SURE HOPE NOT BECAUSE FROM
WHAT I CAN TELL THE DEMOCRATS
HAVE A VERY GOOD CHANCE OF BEING
OUT-SPENT.
I THINK THE KEY TO THE ELECTION
IS GOING TO BE IMAGINE AND
CANDIDATE, THE-- MESSAGE AND
CANDIDATE THE WAY IT USUALLY IS.
IF THE MESSAGE IS SIGNIFICANT
AND MEANINGFUL TO VOTERS AND IF
THE CANDIDATE CONNECTS AS AN
AUTHENTIC PERSON WHO REALLY
CARES ABOUT THEIR CONCERNS AND
WANTS TO ADDRESS THEM AND CAN
ADDRESS THEM, I THINK THAT WILL
CARRY THE DAY.
>> Ifill: YOU HAVE ALREADY
DECIDED TO SUPPORT HILLARY
CLINTON.
YOU'VE RAISED MONEY FOR HER, YET
SHE HAS BEEN ON THE CAMPAIGN
TRAIL SAYING ONE OF THE FIRST
THINGS SHE WOULD DO AS PRESIDENT
IS REPEAL CITIZENS UNITED.
WOULDN'T THAT PUT YOU OUT OF
BUSINESS?
>> IT WOULD BE FANTASTIC.
WE FELT FROM THE BEGINNING THAT
CITIZENS UNITED WAS A MISTAKE,
THAT THE WAY MONEY IS USED IN
AMERICAN CAMPAIGNS ISN'T GOOD
FOR DEMOCRACY.
IT'S JUST A SITUATION WHERE WE
FELT AS IF THERE'S AN IMMENSE
AMOUNT OF MONEY ON THE OTHER
SIDE, AND AS LONG AS THIS IS THE
SYSTEM WHICH THE SUPREME COURT
HAS PUT IN PLACE, THERE'S GOT TO
BE SOMEBODY ON OUR SIDE.
AND WHEN YOU LOOK AT THE
RELATIVE DOLLARS, IT REALLY IS A
DAVID AND GOLIATH SITUATION, AND
WE'RE VERY DEFINITELY THE SMALL
SHEPARD BOY WITH FIVE ROCKS AND
A SLING.
>> Ifill: THE SMALL SHEPARD
BOY, REALLY?
>> ABSOLUTELY.
>> Sreenivasan: YOU'RE DAVID?
>> I DON'T THINK THERE'S ANY
QUESTION ABOUT IT.
>> Ifill: LET'S TALK ABOUT
SOME OF YOUR DAVID ISSUES.
THE KEYSTONE PIPELINE, SOMETHING
YOU SAY SHOULD NOT BE BUILT.
HILLARY CLINTON HASN'T EXACTLY
SAID, SINCE SHE'S BEEN A
CANDIDATE, WHAT, SHE HAS BEEN
WHAT SOME PEOPLE THINK IS
SUSPICIOUSLY QUIET, SOME PEOPLE
ON YOUR SIDE OF THE ARGUMENT.
WHAT WOULD YOU DO IF SHE DECIDE,
AS SHE SEEMED SHE WAS HEADING IN
THE DIRECTION WHEN SECRETARY OF
STATE, THAT SHE WAS INCLINED TO
SUPPORT ITS CONSTRUCTION.
>> WE SEE KEYSTONE AS A
SIGNIFICANT DECISION ABOUT THE
FUTURE OF AMERICAN ENERGY
POLICY, THAT IT'S A DIRTY-- THE
TAR SANDS ARE A DIRTY SOURCE OF
ENERGY, AND THAT DEVELOPING THEM
IN-- AND THEY'RE ABSOLUTELY
IMMENSE-- IS A CHOICE THAT'S
GOING TO PLAY OUT OVER DECADES.
WHEREAS WE THINK THE CORRECT
THING FOR THE UNITED STATES TO
DO IS TO FOLLOW A TECHNOLOGY AND
RESEARCH-BASED CLEAN ENERGY
POLICY THAT WILL CREATE A LOT OF
JOBS.
SO WHEN YOU THINK ABOUT MRS.
CLINTON HYPOTHETICALLY DETERMINE
WHAT WE DO IF SHE DID SOMETHING
WHICH SHE HASN'T DONE-- WHAT WE
HAVE HEARD HER DO IS TALK ABOUT
THE IMPORTANCE OF ENERGY AND
CLIMATE, THAT IT'S THE MOST
SIGNIFICANT SET OF ISSUES FACING
THE AMERICAN PEOPLE, AND I
EXPECT SHE'LL COME OUT WAY SET
OF POLICIES THAT'S REALLY
RESPONSIVE.
SO I ACTUALLY DON'T THINK WE'RE
GOING TO BE FACED BY THE
QUESTION YOU'RE POSING.
>> Ifill: LET'S TAKE A LOOK AT
YOUR VERY TOUGH ANTI-KEYSTONE
POLITICAL ADVERTISING, A LITTLE
BIT OF IT RIGHT HERE.
>> Ifill: SO THIS PUTS YOU
POTENTIALLY ON THE OTHER SIDE OF
PRESIDENT OBAMA AS WELL.
YOU CONSIDER YOURSELF TO BE KIND
OF A SINGLE-ISSUE SUPPORTER?
>> I ACTUALLY DON'T.
I SEE ENERGY AND CLIMATE AS A
HUMAN ISSUE-- AND BY THE WAY, I
EXPECT THAT PRESIDENT OBAMA WILL
TURN DOWN THE PIPELINE, JUST TO
BE CLEAR.
>CLEAR.
>> Ifill: WHAT DO YOU TBHAIS
ON?
>> ON THE TEST HE SET UP AS TO
WHETHER HE WOULD IMPROVE IT,
WILL IT INCREASE CARBON
POLLUTION, WHICH IT WILL, AND IF
HE FOLLOWS THE TEST HE HIMSELF
SET UP, HE WILL TURN IT DOWN.
>> Ifill: AS AN ISSUE
CANDIDATE RATHER THAN
NECESSARILY A PARTY CANDIDATE,
YOU CAN SEE YOURSELF EVER
SUPPORTING A REPUBLICAN?
>> I THINK IF WE ARE TRYING TO
MONITOR ALL THE REPUBLICAN
CANDIDATES FOR PRESIDENT-- WE'RE
SEEING THE REPUBLICANS MOVE.
WE'D BE THRILLED TO BE FACED
WITH A REPUBLICAN WHO WAS MORE
PROGRESSIVE ON ENERGY AND
CLIMATE THAN --
>> DTHAN--
>> Ifill: DO YOU SEE ANY OUT
THERE?
>> NO.
>> Ifill: WHAT'S THE POINT OF
GETTING INVOLVED IN ANY
REPUBLICAN PRIMARIES IF IT'S SIX
OF ONE AND HALF A DOZEN OF THE
OTHER?
>> IN TERMS NOT OF GIVING MONEY
BUT MAKING SURE THERE IS SOMEONE
GETTING CANDIDATES ON RECORD,
KEEPING AN HONEST RECORD OF
THAT, GIVING THEM ENCOURAGEMENT
WHEN THEY DO-- WHAT WE THINK OF
AS THE RIGHT THING TO DO, TRYING
TO EXPOSE THEM WHEN WHEN WE
DON'T THINK THEY'RE FACING UP TO
THE ISSUE FAIRLY.
THAT'S A JOB THAT WE THINK IS
IMPORTANT FOR SOMEBODY IN
AMERICA TO DO BECAUSE WE THINK
AMERICAN CITIZENS HAVE A RIGHT
TO KNOW WHERE THE CANDIDATE
STAND ON WHAT IS ONE OF THE KEY
ISSUES FACING US.
>> Ifill: ASIDE FROM THE FACT
THAT YOU BIS DIS AGREE WITH SOME
OF THE BASIC ANOTHERS AND MAYBE
THE ORDER OF MAGNITUDE, HOW ARE
DIFFERENT FROM THE KOCH
BROTHERS?
>> THERE ARE A LOT OF
DIFFERENCES.
FIRST OF ALL, ANYTHING-- THERE'S
NO WAY YOU CAN SHOW-- BECAUSE
IT'S NOT TRUE-- THAT ANYTHING
WE'RE DOING IS SELF-INTERESTED.
THE KOCH BROTHERS SAY THEY'RE
ACTING OUT OF CONVICTION, BUT
WHATEVER THEY'RE DOING ALSO
DEFINITELY BENEFITS THEIR BOTTOM
LINE.
YOU CAN'T SAY THAT ABOUT US.
SECOND OF ALL, I'M VERY
SUSPICIOUS AND SCARED ABOUT THE
WAY MONEY'S USED IN POLITICS,
AND TO TRY TO AMELIORATE THAT WE
TRY TO BE AS TRANSPARENT AS
POSSIBLE.
YOU SAID HERE ARE THE RECORDS OF
EXACTLY WHAT YOU SPENT.
YEAH, THAT'S TRUE.
WE MADE THOSE AVAILABLE.
WE TRY TO DO EVERYTHING IN A WAY
SO PEOPLE CAN SEE EXACTLY WHAT
WE'RE DOING.
I'M ACTUALLY ON YOUR SHOW,
OBVIOUSLY, GWEN.
DID THE KOCH BRACKETS COME ON
YOUR SHOW.
>> Ifill: I'M WAITING ON THEM.
>> I'M SURE YOU ARE.
BUT MY POINT IS A., IT'S NOT IN
OUR SELF-INTEREST TO DO WHAT
WE'RE DOING.
WE THINK IT'S IN THE PUBLIC
INTEREST.
SECOND OF ALL, WE'RE TRYING TO
BE AS TRANSPARENT AS POSSIBLE.
AND WHEN YOU LOOK AT THE NUMBERS
WHATEVER IT IS WE'RE GOING TO BE
A FRACTION OF WHAT THEY ARE SO
WE'RE GOING TO HAVE TO RELY ON
MESSAGE AND THE FACTS BEING ON
OUR SIDE.
>> Ifill: ASSUMING YOU'RE
PUTTING YOUR MONEY AN WHERE YOUR
MOUTH S$70 MILLION IN 2014.
>> I DON'T KNOW.
WHAT I FOUND IN POLITICS ANYONE
WHONGS THEY CAN PLAN HOW A
CAMPAIGN IS GOING TO GO I THINK
IS NHLISH BECAUSE IT'S ONE OF
THOSE INTERACTIVE THINGS-- IF I
DO SOMETHING YOU DO SOMETHING.
SO YOU REALLY DON'T UNDERSTAND
BEFORE IT STARTS HOW IT'S GOING
TO PLAY OUT SPHWHRIEFL THERE'S
ANOTHER WAY OF PUTTING YOUR
MONEY WHERE YOUR MOUTH IS AND
THAT COULD HAVE BEEN RUNNING FOR
THE U.S. SENATE IN CALIFORNIA
FOR BARBARA BOARKS' SEAT.
WHY DID YOU DECIDE AGAINST THAT?
>> HONESTLY, WE FELT LIKE THE
WAY WE COULD HAVE THE MOST
IMPACT IN 2015 AND 2016 WAS NOT
BY RUNNING BUT ACTUALLY TO TRY
TO KEEP GOING ON THE
VOTER-TO-VOTER CONTACT WE HAD
BEEN PUSHING IN 20 FRAEB WHICH
IS GOING OUT AND REG STERG
VOTERS, HAVING PEOPLE GO DOOR TO
DOOR TO TALK TO VOTERS, TRYING
TO GET PEOPLE TOND THE ISSUES WE
THINK ARE MOST SIGNIFICANT--
>> Ifill: DON'T YOU HAVE TO
HAVE A FACE TO MAKE THAT CASE
MOST EFFECTIVELY?
>> I THINK ULTIMATELY SOMEONE
HAS GOT IT TAKE THE LEAD.
I THINK,OB, THERE ARE PEOPLE WHO
ARE RUNNING ON THE DEMOCRATIC
SIDE WHO WANT TO BE THAT FACE,
BUT I THINK IN 2015 AND 2016, WE
REALLY FELT LIKE WHAT WE COULD
DO WAS SUPPORT WHAT WAS GOING
ON.
BASICALLY TRY AND RELY ON
OLD-FASHIONED, AMERICAN
DEMOCRACY WHICH IS AMERICANS
TALKES TO AMERICANS ABOUT THE
MOST IMPORTANT ISSUES OF THE
DAY.
>> Ifill: SIRE, THANK YOU VERY
MUCH.
>> THANK YOU.
>> Woodruff: WE TRAVEL NOW TO
MALAYSIA, WHERE THOUSANDS OF
MIGRANTS, FLEEING PERSECUTION
AND IMPOVERISHMENT, SPENDING
WEEKS TRAPPED AT SEA, FIND A
DIFFERENT NIGHTMARE WHEN THEY
FINALLY LAND ASHORE.
JONATHAN SPARKS OF INDEPENDENT
TELEVISION NEWS REPORTS.
AND A WARNING: THE STORY
CONTAINS SOME GRAPHIC ELEMENTS.
>> Reporter: WE WERE TAKEN IN
ARMY TRUCKS TO THE BOTTOM OF THE
MOUNTAIN, WHERE THE MALAYSIAN
AUTHORITIES SAID THEY'D FOUND A
HUMAN TRAFFICKERS' CAMP.
THIS WAS A SIGNIFICANT
DEVELOPMENT.
LAST WEEK, THEY VEHEMENTLY
DENIED THERE WERE ANY.
WE'RE STILL GOING, ARE WE?
WE'RE STILL GOING TO THE CAMP?
>> YEAH, YEAH, YEAH.
YEAH.
>> Reporter: THE ORDER WAS GIVEN
AND WE BEGAN TO CLIMB.
YESTERDAY, THE MALAYSIANS CAME
CLEAN, ADMITTING THERE WERE AT
ICKERS HELD THOUSANDS OFc" sRT
MUSLIMS CALLED ROHINGYA AND
IMPOVERISHED BANGLADESHIS.
AND WE FOLLOWED IN THEIR
FOOTSTEPS.
MEN WOMEN ANCHILD DREN FORCED UP
AND DOWN THIS TRAIL.
THE TRACK IS ROUGH AND IT'S ALSO
VERY STEEP, BUT YOU CAN SEE THAT
IT'S WELL USED.
THERE'S LITTER ALL OVER THE
PLACE.
AND IT'S DIFFICULT TO BELIEVE
THAT LOCAL PEOPLE AND MEMBERS OF
THE AUTHORITIES DIDN'T KNOW THAT
THERE WERE HUNDREDS OF PEOPLE
LIVING OUT HERE.
THE CAMP TOOK SHAPE FROM A
DISTANCE.
SUCH WAS IT SIZE THAT IT WASN'T
EASY TO HIDE.
A BAMBOO JAIL THAT STRETCHED
ACROSS A MOUNTAIN CLEARING, BUT
FURTHER DETAILS WERE HARD TO
COME BY.
HOW MANY PEOPLE DO YOU THINK
WERE KEPT THERE?
>> I'M NOT SURE.
>> NOT SURE.
>> NOT SURE, YEAH.
>> Reporter: WE'VE BEEN GIVEN A
FEW SECONDS TO WALK THROUGH THE
CAMP, BUT I THINK THAT'S THE
WRONG NAME FOR THIS PLACE.
IT'S MORE LIKE A VILLAGE OR A
PRISON COMPLEX.
THERE ARE CELLS WRUNG WITH
BARBED WIRE AND WATCH TOWERS AND
F
FACILITIES.
THERE'S EVEN A CAGE WHERE PEOPLE
WERE KEPT, I PRESUME, BECAUSE
THEY TRIED TO ESCAPE.
CLEARLY, IT WAS A PLACE OF REAL
CRUELTY WHERE HUNDREDS WERE H
FOR THE PURPOSES OF EXTORTION.
TO EARN THEIR RELEASE, THE
VICTIMS' FAMILY MEMBERS HAD TO
PAY A RANSOM OF $2,000-$3,000.
LATER, WE SPOKE TO YOUNG
ROHINGYA WHO WAS HELD FOR SEVEN
MONTHS IN A JUNGLE CAMP.
MONTHS IN A JUNGLE CAMP. >> (
translated): BROKERS
TOLD
>> (translated):
BROKERS TOLD OUR RELATIVES TO
SEND THE MONEY
OUR RELATIVES TO SEND THE MONEY
AND BEAT US WHILE WE WERE ON THE
PHONE.
THEY'RE VERY BAD PEOPLE.
THERE'S LITTLE TO EAT HERE.
SOME PEOPLE STARVE, MANY ARE
SICK.
>> Reporter: SHERUF MANAGED TO
ESCAPE TWO MONTHS AGO, BUT MANY
PRISONERS NEVER LEAVE.
UP ON THE MOUNTAIN, FORENSICS
TEAMS HAVE BEGUN EXAMINING 37
GRAVES OR BURIAL PITS.
AND ON THE EARTH'S SURFACE, WE
SAW BONE FRAGMENTS AND SOMEONE'S
JAW.
JAW. >> (translated
): ONE MAN
>> (translated): ONE
MAN DIDN'T HAVE ANY MONEY TO PAY
THE
DIDN'T HAVE ANY MONEY TO PAY THE
RANSOM, SO THE BROKERS BEAT HIM.
THEY HANDED HIM OVER TO THE CAMP
GUARDS AND SAID YOU CAN FINISH
HIM.
THE GUARDS TOOK A ROPE AND
HANGED HIM.
I SAW IT.
>> Reporter: IT IS AN ODIOUS
BUSINESS AND IT'S GONE ON FOR
YEARS.
BUT THE AUTHORITIES HERE IN
MALAYSIA AND NEIGHBORING
THAILAND SEEM DETERMINED TO
UNCOVER THE TRUTH.
THE THAIS MAKING MORE THAN 60
ARRESTS.
STILL, MANY THINK THE
TRAFFICKERS WILL SOON RETURN TO
THE MOUNTAINS.
>> Ifill: THE SCHOOL YEAR IS
NEARING ITS END AROUND THE
COUNTRY, AND MANY STUDENTS ARE
COMPLETING A NEW ROUND OF
STANDARDIZED TESTS TIED TO THE
COMMON CORE CURRICULUM.
BUT THERE HAS BEEN BACKLASH IN
SOME COMMUNITIES.
WILLIAM BRANGHAM HAS THE STORY.
>> Brangham: PARENTS, IN FACT,
ARE DECIDING TO OPT OUT.
MORE SPECIFICALLY, THEIR
CHILDREN ARE SIMPLY NOT TAKING
YEAR-END STANDARDIZED TESTS SUCH
AS THE PARCC EXAM OR ANOTHER ONE
KNOWN AS "SMARTER BALANCED."
THE MOVEMENT HAS BEEN RELATIVELY
SMALL IN TOTAL NUMBERS.
BUT IT PICKED UP A LOT OF
SUPPORT THIS YEAR IN PLACES LIKE
NEW YORK STATE WHERE AS MANY AS
165,000 STUDENTS OPTED OUT.
IN NEW JERSEY, 15% OF THE HIGH
SCHOOLERS WHO WERE SLATED TO
TAKE THE TESTS CHOSE NOT TO DO
SO.
IT'S ALSO BEEN AN ISSUE IN
FLORIDA AND ELSEWHERE.
WE FILL IN THE PICTURE WITH JOHN
MERROW, OUR SPECIAL
CORRESPONDENT FOR EDUCATION, WHO
REPORTED ON THIS EARLIER THIS
SPRING.
AND MUHTOKO RICH, A NATIONAL
EDUCATION REPORTER FOR THE NEW
YORK TIMES WHO HAS BEEN COVERING
THIS.
MUHTOKO, I'D LIKE TO START WITH
YOU.
I WONDER IF YOU COULD TELL ME,
THIS MOVEMENT SEEMINGLY CAME OUT
OF SOMEWHAT OUT OF NOWHERE.
WE'VE HAD STANDARDIZED TESTING
FOR A FAIRLY LONG TIME.
I WONDER WHY THIS MOMENT?
WHAT ARE THE CONCERNS, AND WHY
HAVE THEY SPRUNG UP NOW?
>> I THINK THERE HAVE BEEN--
IT'S SORT OF A PERFECT STORM OF
CONCERN, SO IT'S NOT JUST ABOUT
TESTING.
A LOT OF PEOPLE I TALK TO SAID
IT'S NOT THE TEST THEMSELVES
THEY OBJECT TO.
IT'S WHAT THEY'RE BEING USED FOR
AND WHAT THEY'RE BASED ON.
WE FIRST HAD THIS MOVEMENT TO
INTRODUCE NEW ACADEMIC STANDARDS
KNOWN AS THE COMMON CORE, WHICH
WERE ADOPTED BY MORE THAN 40
STATES.
AND IN GENERAL, THEY'RE MUCH
MORE RIGOROUS THAN THE STANDARDS
THAT CAME BEFORE.
SO IN THE DEVELOPMENT OF NEW
TESTS TO MEASURE WHETHER OR NOT
STUDENTS WERE REACHING THOSE
STANDARDS AND WHETHER TEACHERS
WERE TEACHING TO THOSE STANDARDS
THE TESTS BECAME HARDER.
WHEN THEY WERE FIRST
ADMINISTERED IN NEW YORK STATE,
THE PROPORTION OF STUDENTS THAT
PASSED THESE TESTS FELL FAIRLY
DRASTICALLY.
YOU USED TO HAVE 70% OR 80% OF
STUDENTS PASSING THE TEST AND IT
DROPPED TO AROUND 30%.
THAT CREATED A LOT OF CONCERN
LAST YEAR.
THIS YEAR WHEN THE TEST WAS
ADMINISTERED, I THINK THERE WAS
ALREADY A LOT OF ANXIETY OUT
THERE.
AND ON TOP OF THAT, GOVERNOR
CUOMO HERE IN NEW YORK DECIDE HE
WANTED TO MAKE TEACHER
EVALUATIONS MORE RIGOROUS.
AND HE WAS CONCERNED THAT SO
MANY TEACHERS HAD BEEN RATED AS
EFFECTIVE OR HIGHLY EFFECTIVE
THE YEAR EARLIER, SO HE PROPOSED
THAT 50% OF THEIR EVALUATIONS BE
BASED ON THE STUDENT TEST
SCORES.
AND I THINK THAT WAS REALLY THE
MOMENT THAT GALVANIZED A LOT OF
PARENTS AND TEACHES WHO WERE
TALKING TO THE PARENTS TO SAY,
"WAIT A MINUTE.
THAT'S NOT WHAT WE WANT THE TEST
TO BE USED FOR."
AS IT TURNED OUT, THAT PROPOSAL
DID NOT PASS, BUT BY THEN, I
THINK THERE HAD BEEN A LOT OF
MOMENTUM THAT A LOT OF PARENTS
WERE CONCERNED THAT THE TESTS
WERE BEING USED IN A WAY THEY
DID NOT DEEM APPROPRIATE.
>> JOHN MERROW, THIS IS
CERTAINLY NOT UNIVERSAL.
A MAJORITY OF THE STUDENTS ARE
TAKING TEST AS INSTRUCTED.
WHAT DO WE KNOW ABOUT THE PEOPLE
WHO ARE CHOOSING TO OPT OUT?
IS THERE A RURAL-INTAWRN SPLIT
IN WHERE DO THEY COME TOWN
POLITICALLY?
WHO ARE THEY?
>> THAT'S INTERESTING.
WE LOOKED INTO THAT.
YOU GET OPPOSITION ON THE RIGHT,
BASICALLY SORT OF A TEA PARTY,
AND THEY'RE UPSET ABOUT WHAT
THEY SEE AS TOO MUCH
INTERFERENCE BY GOVERNMENT.
ON THE LEFT AND THE RIGHT,
THERE'S A VIEW THAT THERE'S JUST
TOO MUCH TESTING AND TEST PREP
IN THE SCHOOLS, WHICH IT TAKE,
OUT ART, MUSIC, PHYS ED.
SOME ON THE LEFT WE FOUND FEEL
THIS IS TOO ANTI-TEACH PERP WE
ARE THE ONLY NATION THEY KNOW OF
THAT USES TEST SCORES NOT TO
ASSESS KIDS BUT TO ASSESS
TEACHERS.
I THINK WE'RE UNIQUE IN DOING
THAT.
THE CENTER OF THE LEFT AND THE
RIGHT, THERE'S A LOT OF FEELING
THAT THE SCHOOL CURRICULUM HAS
BEEN BARE BONES, JUST DRILL AND
AGAIN, NO ARCT NO MUSIC, SO ON
AND SO FORTH.
ON THE LEFT, FROM THE UNIONS,
THEY WERE VERY LATE TO THE
PARTY, AS FAR AS WE COULD FIGURE
OUT, BUT THEY HAVE COME IN
WEIGHING IN THAT THEY'RE
CONCERNED THAT A LOT OF THIS IS
BEING USED TO PLAY GOTCHA WITH
TEACHERS.
IT'S PRETTY WIDESPREAD.
IT'S GRASS ROOTS.
IT'S SMALL.
12 MILLION STUDENTS TALK THE
PARCC.
IF 5% OPT OUT, THAT CREATES--
THAT TRIGGERS SOME RESTRICTIONS,
AND 5% OF 12 MILLION IS ONLY
600,000.
AS YOU SAID, THERE ARE CLOSE TO
150,000 IN NEW YORK STATE ALONE.
>> MUHTOKO, JOHN MENTIONED THIS,
THE TEACHERS' INVOLVEMENT OF
THIS.
HOW MUCH OF THIS IS BEING DRIVEN
BY TEACHERS DO YOU THINK?
>> WELL, I THINK THE TEACHES-- I
WOULD SAY THE TEACHERS UNIONS
HAVE BEEN INCREDIBLY SHREWD IN
CAPITALIZING ON THIS ISSUE.
THERE ARE A LOT OF ISSUES THAT
HAVE BEEN-- THAT THE TEACHERS
UNIONS HAVE FRANKLY BEEND ABOUTF
YEARS, INCLUDING THE STABILITY
OF TENURE, THEIR PENSION
PACKAGES, BUT THIS IS AN ISSUE,
AS JOHN MENTIONED, THAT THEY CAN
KIND OF GALVANIZE LEFT AND
RIGHT.
IN SOME WAYS THEY'RE SORT OF
CAPITALIZING ON A MOVEMENT THAT
WAS ALREADY THERE, BUT I THINK
THEY ALSO HELPED STOKE IT HERE
IN NEW YORK STATE.
THE NEW YORK STATE TEACHERS
UNION DID ROBOCALLS BEFORE THE
END-OF-YEAR TESTS BEGAN TO OFFER
PARENTS TO OPT OUT.
THERE IS A SYMBIOTIC
RELATIONSHIP BETWEEN THE
GRASS-ROOTS MOVEMENT ON THE
PARENTS SIDE AND THE TEACHERS
ORGANIZING AROUND THIS ISSUE.
>> MUHTOKO, I KNOW SOME OF THE
CONCERNS HAVE BEEN ABOUT
TECHNOLOGY.
THESE TESTS ARE GIVE OWN
COMPUTERS.
MANY SCHOOLS HAVE SAID WE DON'T
HAVE THE MONEY.
WE DON'T HAVE THE EQUIPMENT, AND
WE DON'T HAVE THE BAND WIDTH,
AND SOME OF OUR STUDENTS MAY
COME FROM FAMILIES WHERE
COMPUTERS ARE NOT THAT
ACCESSIBLE.
HOW MUCH HAS TECHNOLOGY PLAY IN
RESISTANCE TO THE TESTING?
>> WELL, I WOULD SAY IT DEPENDS
ON WHERE THE TEST WAS BEING
ADMINISTERED.
HERE IN NEW YORK, THE TESTS WERE
ADMINISTERED AS
>> Woodruff: NA LOOK AT THE
GROWING CONTEMPORARY ART MARKET
IN VIETNAM.
FOR YEARS, ARTISTS THERE CREATED
WORKS AROUND THE COUNTRY'S MANY
WARS.
TODAY, THERE IS A THRIVING
INTERNATIONAL ART MARKET, ONE
DEVELOPED AND CURATED BY AN
AMERICAN GALLERY OWNER.
SPECIAL CORRESPONDENT MIKE SERAE
HAS OUR STORY.
>> THE PAINTING IS ENTITLED
"HOPE," THE HOPE FOR THE FUTURE.
YOU SEE THE FIGURE WALKING ON
LOTUS, WHICH IS A SYMBOL OF
PURITY IN VIETNAM.
THE DOUBLE FISH IS THE SIGN OF
PROSPERITY.
IT'S ALL ABOUT HAPPINESS,
PROSPERITY, SENSE OF WELL BEING
AND A HOPE FOR THE FUTURE.
I KNOW THAT WE AS AMERICANS, WE
KNOW NOTHING ABOUT VIETNAM AS A
CULTURE, AND CERTAINLY WE DON'T
KNOW ANYTHING ABOUT CONTEMPORARY
ART IN VIETNAM.
SO I THOUGHT I COULD COME AND
WORK WITH THESE ARTISTS, AND IN
SOME VERY SMALL WAY, YOU KNOW,
BE A-- A LITTLE DROP OF WATER IN
THE OCEAN OF RECONCILIATION
BETWEEN AMERICA AND VIETNAM.
SO I LITERALLY JUST CALLED A
MOVING COMPANY AND SAID, PACK ME
UP, I'M MOVING TO HANOI.
>> Reporter: THIS IS A LONG WAYS
FROM KANSAS AND MONTANA WHERE
SUZANNE LECHT GREW UP AND
STUDIED ART HISTORY.
SHE CAME TO HANOI TWENTY YEARS
AGO WITHOUT EVER HAVING SEEN THE
PLACE BEFORE.
SHE DID SO AFTER THE UNEXPECTED
DEATH OF HER HUSBAND.
SINCE THEN SHE HAS CREATED A NEW
LIFE AND CAREER FOR HERSELF AND
THE INTERNATIONAL MARKET FOR
CONTEMPORARY VIETNAMESE ART, A
FORM OF EXPRESSION THAT WAS
TOTALLY ALIEN TO POST WAR
VIETNAM.
>> SO IT WASN'T THAT THIS WASN'T
A SOPHISTICATED, ARTISTIC
CULTURE, IT WAS VERY
SOPHISTICATED, BUT FROM 1930 TO
1980 THEY'RE DOCUMENTING ALL
THESE WARS, SO THEN IT WAS AFTER
THE WAR ENDED, ALL OF A SUDDEN
THERE WAS NO RE WMOARS TO
DOCUMENT AND THAT WAS REALLY THE
BEGINNING OF-- AND THE GANG OF
FIVE REALLY STARTED THAT ROAD TO
REALLY CONTEMPORARY ART IN
VIETNAM.
>> Reporter: AFTER READING AN
ARTICLE ABOUT THE GROUP OF
VIETNAMESE MODERN ARTISTS DUBBED
"THE GANG OF FIVE," SUZANNE
MADE IT HER MISSION TO FIND
THEM, AND HELP THEM EMERGE FROM
THE SHADOWS OF GOVERNMENT
CENSORSHIP AND THE AMERICAN
EMBARGO, WHICH MADE THEIR WORK
DIFFICULT TO FIND.
AND VIRTUALLY IMPOSSIBLE TO
SELL.
SHE MANAGED TO FIND HA TRI HIEU
ON HER FIRST WEEK IN THE
COUNTRY.
>> WHEN HE WENT TO THE FINE ARTS
UNIVERSITY, THERE HE WAS EXPOSED
TO GREAT MASTERS OF PAINTING
FROM EUROPE.
SO YOU'RE SEEING THIS KIND OF
WONDERFUL FUSION OF THEIR
WESTERN EDUCATION ALONG WITH
THEIR TRADITIONAL FOLK ART.
SO IT WAS THE FIRST GENERATION
OF ARTISTS TO BE WORKING IN A
TIME OF PEACE IN LITERALLY
HUNDREDS OF YEARS.
SO ALL OF A SUDDEN, THEY WERE
REQUIRED TO DO PROPAGANDA OR
VERY NATIONALISTIC WORKS OF ART.
AND THEY'VE STARTED DOING-
THEY'VE STARTED PAINTING THEIR
HOPES AND THEIR DREAMS.
>> WENT TO THE COUNTRYSIDE AND
HAD A LOT OF FRIENDS WHO WERE
PAEBTING AND I SLOWLY CHANGED MY
MEDIUM.
I BEGAN TO FEEL THE EMOTION AND
PASSION FOR PAINTING THE
COUNTRYSIDE, MY FRIENDS AND
FAMILY AND COWS.
>> SO THIS INITIALLY WAS YOUR
GALLERY, AND YOU LIVE UPSTAIRS?
>> YES.
>> Reporter: HER DREAM OF
OPENING AN ART GALLERY STARTED
IN HER HOME, A TRADITIONAL
COUNTRY HOUSE ONE OF "THE GANG
OF FIVE" ARTISTS HELPED HER
DISASSEMBLE AND RECONSTRUCT
ABOVE HER APARTMENT IN THE HEART
OF HANOI.
THIS IS WHERE SHE WOULD BRING
VISITORS TO SEE AND LEARN ABOUT
THE ART, SOMEWHAT PRIVATELY AT
FIRST, BEFORE THE GOVERNMENT
GRADUALLY RELAXED ITS
RESTRICTIONS ON PUBLIC ART
EXHIBITIONS.
>> WELL IN THE VERY EARLY 90'S,
THERE WERE ONLY AS FAR AS ART
GOES, THERE WAS A GOVERNMENT
EXHIBITION CENTER.
AND EVERYTHING THAT IS SHOWN
THERE, AND THIS IS STILL TRUE
TODAY, YOU HAVE TO SUBMIT A
PHOTOGRAPH OF WORK TO THE
MINISTRY OF CULTURE TO GET
APPROVAL.
BUT THAT SAID, I THINK GENERALLY
OVER THE YEARS, IT'S BECOME
EASIER.
THE ARTISTS ARE PRETTY FREE TO
EXPRESS THEMSELVES.
AND ANYTHING THAT'S REALLY
NEGATIVE ABOUT THE GOVERNMENT,
YOU WOULD HAVE TROUBLE SHOWING
TODAY.
>> Reporter: SUZANNNE FINALLY
OPENED HER FIRST PUBLIC GALLERY
IN DOWNTOWN HANOI IN 2002 AND
STARTED TO ATTRACT BOTH LOCAL
AND INTERNATIONAL BUYERS.
>> WE'VE HAD MANY BIG
COLLECTORS, LEON BLACK, ONE OF
THE BIGGEST COLLECTORS IN
AMERICA, CAME IN ON HIS PRIVATE
JET FOR A DAY, CAME INTO THE
GALLERY.
>> WELL I HAD MICK JAGGER I
SUPPOSE, I THINK THAT WAS
EVERYBODY'S FAVORITE JUST
BECAUSE HE'S SUCH A ROCK STAR.
>> Reporter: VIETNAM'S ECONOMIC
GROWTH HAS BEEN EXPONENTIAL
SINCE ITS ADOPTION OF A MARKET
BASED ECONOMY AND THE LIFTING OF
THE U.S. TRADE EMBARGO AFTER
DIPLOMATIC RELATIONS WERE
RESTORED IN 1995.
LUXURY GOODS,E
HERE BEFORE AND AFTER THE WAR,
ARE AN EXTREME SYMBOL OF THE
RAMPANT CONSUMERISM SWEEPING THE
COUNTRY.
THE LOCAL FASHION AND ART SCENE
HAS ALSO BLOSSOMED FOR A NEW
GENERATION OF VIETNAMESE WHICH
HAS LITTLE REFERENCE TO EITHER
THE WAR OR THE SOCIALIST
AUSTERITY OF THE PAST.
>> SO THIS PARTICULAR PIECE IS
ABOUT THE SOCIAL TRANSFORMATION
OF THE COUNTRY.
HERE YOU HAVE THE NOUVEAU RICHE,
THE ADVERTISEMENT OF THE LUXURY
GOODS THAT ARE ONLY AVAILABLE TO
A VERY SMALL PERCENTAGE AND THE
REST OF VIETNAM IS DOWN HERE.
SO IT'S THE ARTIST'S DEPICTION
OF THE INEQUALITY OF THE SOCIAL
TRANSFORMATION.
THIS IS THE WORK OF DING TE TAM
PHON, SHE IS AN ETHNIC MINORITY
ARTIST AND YOU KNOW THE ETHNIC
MINORITY ARTISTS ARE QUITE
MARGINALIZED.
SO HE FACT THAT SHE HAS COME
HERE TO HANOI FORM GROWING UP IN
THE MOUNTAINS WHERE SHE IS VERY
POOR AND HAVE GONE THROUGH THE
ART SCHOOL AND TO BECOME OUR
MOST WELL KNOWN INTERNATIONALLY
FEMALE ARTIST IS A HUGE
ACHIEVEMENT.
>> I WANT TO START BY THANKING
SUZANNE LECHT.
WHEN SHE OFFERED ME HER GALLERY
SPACE IT WAS ABSOLUTELY A DREAM
COME TRUE.
>> Reporter: SUZANNE'S ART
VIETNAM GALLERY RECENTLY
FEATURED THE PHOTOGRAPHY OF
CATHERINE KARNO.
THE DAUGHTER OF CORRESPONDENT
AND HISTORIAN STANLEY KARNOW,
WHO WROTE THE SEMINAL "VIETNAM
WAR: A HISTORY."
>> EVERY TIME I CAME BACK FROM A
TRIP TO VIETNAM AND SHOWED MY
FATHER THE PICTURES, HE WAS
ASTOUNDED.
WHEN YOU LOOK AT THE PHOTOGRAPH
FOR EXAMPLE OF THE GIRL DANCERS
ON THE STAGE OF A HENNESSEY
LAUNCH IN SAIGON.
YOU WOULD HAVE NEVER SEEN
ANYTHING LIKE THIS JUST A FEW
YEARS AGO.
WHEN I FIRST CAME IN THE EARLY
90'S IT WAS DARK, AUSTERE, VERY
POOR.
TODAY YOU SEE SELF-EXPRESSION,
CREATIVITY.
YOU SEE THE YOUNG PEOPLE PERHAPS
THINKING OUTSIDE THE BOX.
AN EXPLOSION OF NOT ONLY
BUSINESS, BUT ALSO ART AND
DESIGN.
ONE OF THE MANY THINGS I'VE
LOVED ABOUT THIS EXHIBITION IS
THAT I'VE NOTICED THERE'S A
WHOLE NEW, YOUNG GENERATION OF
VIETNAMESE THAT ARE COMING--
THAT ARE WANTING TO KNOW ABOUT
THEIR COUNTRY, WHAT HAPPENED AND
ALSO ART.
>> Reporter: JUST AS SUZANNE
LECHT NEVER HAD A BUSINESS PLAN
WHEN SHE CAME TO VIETNAM MORE
THAN TWENTY YEARS AGO TO HELP
KICK-START THE MODERN ART
BUSINESS, SHE DOESN'T HAVE AN
EXIT STRATEGY EITHER.
>> I FEEL IT'S BEEN NOT ONLY A
VERY EXCITING, CHALLENGING,
AMAZING JOURNEY BUT I THINK WHAT
I'VE LEARNED ABOUT LIFE AND
ABOUT MYSELF HAS JUST BEEN THE
MOST MARVELOUS, INTELLECTUAL
EXERCISE THAT I COULD HAVE EVER
EXPERIENCED.
>> Reporter: FOR THE PBS
SH
FROM HANOI, VIETNAM.
>> Ifill: LATER TONIGHT ON PBS
"OBAMA AT WAR," FRONTLINE
INVESTIGATES THE
ADMINISTRATION'S STRUGGLE TO
DEAL WITH THE SYRIAN CIVIL WAR
AND THE RISE OF ISLAMIC STATE
MILITANTS.
THIS WILL BEGIN SHORTLY AFTER
THE EXTREMISTS GAIN CONTROL OF A
MAJOR CITY IN SYRIA.
>> Reporter: SIX MONTHS LATER,
ISIS BURST INTO PUBLIC
CONSCIOUSNESS WHEN THEY CROSSED
THE BORDER BACK INTO IRAQ AND
SEIZED IRAQ'S SECOND LARSTGE
CITY, MOSUL.
(EXPLOSION)
SUNNI RESIDENTS WELCOMED THEM.
U.S. OFFICIALS WERE BLINDSIDED.
>> THE FALL OF MOL WAS
SOMETHING THAT WE HAD NOT
ANTICIPATED.
AND THE SUDDENNESS WITH WHICH
THAT FALL OCCURRED WAS SOMETHING
THAT-- THAT WAS A SHOCK.
THEY SEIZED EVERYTHING FROM
SMALL ARMS TO LIGHT-ARMORED
VEHICLES-- TO ANTI-AIRCRAFT
WEAPONS.
WHEN TERRORISTS OF THIS KIND GET
THEIR HANDS ON WEAPONS, IT WAS A
HUGE CONCERN TO US.
I DON'T THINK WE TRULY
UNDERSTOOD THE DEPTH OF THE
PROBLEM UNTIL THE FALL OF MOSUL.
>> Reporter: FOR ALL THE
CONTINGENCY PLANNING THAT YOU
ROUTINELY DO HERE AT THE
PENTAGON, WERE THERE PLANS FOR
HOW TO REACT TO THE FALL OF
MOSUL TO ISIS?
>> WELL, NO, THERE WERE NOT,
BECAUSE, OF COURSE-- LOOK, THERE
WERE SEVERAL THINGS THAT
SURPRISED US ABOUT I.S.I.L.
THE DEGREE TO WHICH THEY WERE
ABLE TO FORM THEIR OWN
COALITION, BOTH INSIDE OF SYRIA
AND INSIDE OF NORTHWESTERN IRAQ;
THE MILITARY CAPABILITY THAT
THEY EXHIBITED, THE COLLAPSE OF
THE IRAQI SECURITY FORCES.
YEAH, IN THOSE INITIAL DAYS,
THERE WERE A FEW SURPRISES.
>> Reporter: THE REACTION WAS
SHOCK AND CONCERN THAT IT LOOKED
LIKE THEY WERE LOSING IRAQ.
BUT THERE WAS VERY LITTLE
ACTION.
MOSUL, THE SECOND-BIGGEST CITY
IN IRAQ, EVEN THAT WAS NOT
ENOUGH TO REALLY MOTIVATE
ACTION.
FACING LITTLE OR NO RESISTANCE,
ISIS MOVED DEEPER INSIDE IRAQ
CAPTURING TOWN AFTER TOWN.
>> Ifill: TUNE IN TONIGHT FOR
FRONTLINE'S "OBAMA AT WAR."
CHECK YOUR LOCAL LISTING FOR THE
TIME.
>> Woodruff: ON THE NEWSHOUR
ONLINE-- MUSIC STREAMING SERVICE
SPOTIFY ANNOUNCED LAST WEEK THAT
THEY WILL BEGIN OFFERING
PLAYLISTS THAT MATCH THE TEMPO
OF YOUR WORKOUT.
THAT GOT US THINKING, WHAT'S THE
BEST MUSIC FOR GETTING THE MOST
OUT OF YOUR EXERCISE TIME?
WE ASKED RESEARCHERS WHO STUDY
MUSIC AND THE BRAIN.
SEE WHAT THEY TOLD US, AND FIND
THE NEWSHOUR'S OWN WORKOUT
PLAYLIST, ON OUR HOME PAGE.
ALL THAT AND MORE IS ON OUR WEB
SITE, pbs.org/newshour.
>> Ifill: AND THAT'S THE
NEWSHOUR FOR TONIGHT.
ON WEDNESDAY, TRYING TO FIND
HOMES FOR MOROCCO'S ORPHANS,
WHERE AN ESTIMATED 24 CHILDREN
ARE ABANDONED EVERY DAY.
I'M GWEN IFILL.
>> Woodruff: AND I'M JUDY
WOODRUFF, JOIN US ON-LINE AND
AGAIN HERE TOMORROW EVENING.
FOR ALL OF US HERE AT THE PBS
NEWSHOUR, THANK YOU AND GOOD